---
title: 'Alternatives to Google Reader: are there any?'
date: Mon, 09 Feb 2009 22:13:19 +0000
draft: false
tags: [Blogging, Google, Technology]
---

A few years ago, it seemed that there was an endless supply of new and exciting online RSS readers. I started off on Bloglines, then moved with the herd to Google Reader, where I've been happily using their freebie product ever since. Somewhere along the line I had a brief flirtation with the clever hybrid RSS/Digg-style Rojo.com. Sadly, Rojo got acquired by Six Apart and no longer exists. Why am I looking around for alternative RSS readers? Well, I'm going through one of those anti-Google phases. I'm getting a teeny bit concerned about the amount of information I'm feeding the company. And so I've started looking around for an alternative. The thing is, there don't seem to be many alternatives. What's _that_ all about? Did Google get involved in the RSS market and completely obliterate the competition? Looks like it: there's virtually nothing left. Which is weird, considering how RSS once promised to revolutionize how we consume information. There seem to be a few self-hosted solutions out there, like [GobbleRSS](http://gobblerss.pommepause.com/). Not a bad idea though, especially if you've got concerns over Google's stewardship of your data. Of course, you've got to have a web server at your disposal on which to install said Open Source RSS reader. Two cutting edge RSS readers that mix the holy grail of information feeds and social interaction are [recommended at ReadBurner](http://readburner.wordpress.com/2008/03/21/to-all-those-google-reader-alternatives/). Worth a look? I _would_ experiment with offline RSS readers but because I flick between computers and operating systems, that's not a great option. [BlogBridge](http://www.blogbridge.com) looks good on this front, because it has a service that backs up your subscriptions online so you _can_ have a degree of flexibility. Rather unimaginatively, I've headed for the Bloglines beta version - something familiar, but slightly improved upon the original version of Bloglines. But just as a question to the readers: have you come across a decent alternative to Bloglines or Google Reader? Care to recommend one?