---
title: 'Beachbody Insanity, Day 2: Plyometric Cardio'
date: Tue, 17 Apr 2012 21:18:25 +0000
draft: false
tags: [Beachbody, Exercise, Fitness, Health, Insanity]
---

Ah, now Insanity has begun in earnest! If [yesterday's fit test](http://gerard.wordpress.com/2012/04/16/beachbody-insanity-day-1-the-fit-test/ "Beachbody Insanity, Day 1: The Fit Test") lulled me into a false sense of security, Day 2's Plyometric Cardio session was a taster of what Insanity is _really_ like. Here's a quick run-down of what to expect from Day 2. But first: **The aftermath from Day 1**: Nothing serious. Yesterday evening was fine, but I woke up this morning with a mild stiffness in my shoulders and inner thighs. No biggie. But I reckon I'll be stiffer tomorrow!

Day 2: Plyometric Cardio
------------------------

So what's "plyometric cardio", then? Basically, [a lot of running a jumping](http://www.fitsugar.com/Definition-Plyometrics-188412). Intense cardio stuff. If you've done any Jillian Michael's stuff, its kind of like that. But Insanity is much faster. Far more intense. Similar to the fit test, the Plyometric routine begins with a warm-up and a series of stretches to prepare the body for the rigorous pummelling it's about to receive. Once the session begins in earnest, it's one circuit repeated three times. On each repetition, Shaun T pushes you to work harder. After the third repetition, a second circuit begins - same idea as before - repeat three times doing the moves harder and faster each time. The routine finishes off with a rapid-fire series of boxing-style moves designed to finish off on a cardio high! After that, it's cool down time, with a repetition of the stretches from the warm-up. This was an intense session. There were points where I was actually brought to my knees with exhaustion, but overall the routines are quite nicely balanced - there are points in the routine that allow you to recover and points that push you to the brink. Stick with it to the end though and you'll be satisfyingly sweaty and puffing for air. **Grumbles**: I try to watch the DVDs the evening before so that I know what's coming up in the session and I can be prepared for it. In reality, you can't really work on form until you're actually working out. The problem with this (and a lot of exercise DVDs) is that it's hard to watch the screen while you're bouncing around a room at top speed! I found myself stopping and rewinding a few times just to get the form right. Right now (several hours later), the shoulders, pecs and inner thighs are reassuringly stiff. Right after the workout, I experienced a wonderful post-exercise high that lasted for about half an hour. At this point my eyes have been opened - Insanity is not going to be a walk in the park. This is hard work, but it's also (so far) incredibly rewarding. **Tomorrow:** [Day 3, Cardio Power & Resistance](http://gerard.wordpress.com/2012/04/18/beachbody-insanity-day-3-cardio-power-resistance/).