---
title: 'Self-employed me, week three'
date: Wed, 19 Nov 2008 21:42:07 +0000
draft: false
tags: [Life, Unreality TV]
---

I haven't made much fanfare on here about becoming self-employed. Oh, in my head I wanted to write a sermon about how good it feels to be achieving a lifelong dream. The last few months at Howden, I was becoming more and more aware of how bogged down in paperwork we were becoming. It's hard to be passionate about something when you can't move for filling in forms. So yes, leaving to work on my own business has been a great feeling. Liberating. Empowering. Lots of big motivational words like that. But I'm a realist too, and I don't want to pen some high and mighty words that'll come back to haunt me later. It's a fact of life that the online advertising market is contracting at the moment. Revenues so far have been fine, but you'd be a fool if you thought that money just comes flooding in when you've got a website that's doing well. The last two and a half weeks have been busy. I've done five interviews: three with X Factor finalists, one with Rhydian Roberts and one with George Sampson (who won Britain's Got Talent last year. Interviewing has been fun. But those people you know as stories in the paper, they're real people. That becomes clearer with each person I interview. When you're writing about these folk, you tend to think of them as cartoon characters. And if you subscribe to the theory of "any publicity is good publicity", then you tend to think that these minor celebs that thrive, even on negative press. It's difficult when you speak to them. You think, shit, I slated their last three performances on X Factor. If they read that, I'd feel bad. I think it's probably going to affect the tone of my writing to some degree. Darn, I was enjoying being snarky. I've also got this bizarre, burgeoning relationship with press and publicty people. I used to think of them as record company stoogies, helping to grease the wheels of the major label money machine. But in reality, these folks have given me the scoop on some amazing new music, and I've received more than a few brilliant CDs that are heading toward my iPod. At the moment, I'm still getting loose ends cleared up that I haven't had time for until now. Time's still an issue though. Apparently the number of hours in each day remain the same, whether you're self-employed or not. I may find myself outsourcing work shortly to move some projects forward. Ah, it feels good to have written such a long and rambling blog post. I _will_ try to keep this increasingly up to date as things come to me. I'm also planning to dip my toes into a bit of video blogging (even though I have a face for radio). I've wanted to try this out for a while now, and it seems to be time to jump in and get some experience vlogging. But that's an experiment for another day.